♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to be setting
up DigitalOcean. DigitalOcean is sort of a
server provider, and they're pretty sweet
because, A, they're fairly cheap and,
B, they actually give you access to the
raw server if you want to get in there and
make some changes, and have full control
over your entire environment.
The last two are sort of just services.
While they can do absolutely everything
that we need, it can be a little bit
limiting if you just want to get in there
and see what's on your hard drive and what
not. So we have the ability to create our
own Linux server. But before we even do
that, I want to just figure out how are we
going to get the files on the server once
we've created it? There are all kinds of
different ways that you can get your files
on a server. You can use something called
"rsync", which would sync them all up. You
can SSH into your box and move those over
with something called "STP". You can use
an FTP client that supports SFTP,
and you just log in with that, and drag
and drop your files. There's all kinds of
different ways, and what we're going to be
doing is using a Git repo that we can then
push to GitHub, and then go on to our
server and pull that down from GitHub.
So we're going to go to GitHub here, and
we're going to create a new repo,
and we're going to call this
"testing-deploy-node", and then "Testing
Deploy". Let's try that. Create the repo.
What we want to do is we already have an
existing repo, so we just need these two
lines right here. There we go,
and we're just pushing up all of our data.
Again, this is going to take a little bit,
because we do have quite a few images in
our actual repo. As you get more and more
images, it might make sense to start
looking at, rather than storing your
images right in your Uploads folder, but
storing them on something like Amazon S3,
where your files are stored on a separate
CDN. There we go. I've got everything
uploaded here, and I give it a refresh.
You should see that your entire
application, except your variables.env are
up and running. Good.
Now, we go back to DigitalOcean and you're
logged into your dashboard.
Create an account if you haven't. Then,
you should see a button that says,
"Create a New Droplet". What we want to do
is go over to our one-click apps here,
and we want to select the highest version
of Node that they currently offer.
It looks like it's 6.10.2. That's not
nearly as close as what we need.
We need at least 7.6. But it's going to
get us there, and we'll hop on the server
and upgrade it ourselves. So click on
that. We do need at least one gig of RAM
in order to do our npm install. I have
found that if you choose a $5 one,
when you do npm install, the npm install
will fail. The reason is because there's
just not enough memory for it to download
all those files. Although that's said,
the $5 server is good enough for our
application. It's just the npm install
that it fails on. So if you do want to
save yourself $5 a month,
do a quick search for "how to add swap
memory." Now, this is Ubuntu 12,
but I followed these on my own server,
because I didn't feel like paying an extra
$5 a month for npm install. What this will
do is it will install something called
"swap memory," which you can use the file
system as sort of temporary memory,
and then that way the npm install will
work. If you don't know what I'm talking
about, then let's just go with the $10 a
month one. You could even do the $10,
do our install, and then size down to $5 a
month, if you're really worried about it.
Then, you pick your location, where you
want to go. I'm going to go with the
default New York 2, and then SSH keys. If
you don't know what an SSH key is,
essentially, what it is, it's like a
little fingerprint on your computer so
that when you try to log into a server,
you don't need to provide the username and
password. You simply just log into it and
the SSH key is proof enough that you're
actually coming from an authorized
machine. I'm not going to show an SSH key,
just so that if you're not familiar with
them, you can keep going and only use the
password. But ideally, what you would do
is you would create an SSH key and log in
without any sort of password. Finally, you
create a host name.
We'll call this "node-deploy1", or
whatever it is you'd like to call it,
and click on Create. Now, while you wait
for this to go ahead and create itself,
we can hop over to our email and grab the
password that it's going to send you.
It's a one-time password that we need to
get into our box. Now,
after about a minute or so, you're going
to see that your server is ready to go and
it will give you an IP address. What comes
in your email if you didn't use an SSH key
is you'll see the name of the Droplet, the
IP address, your username,
and then this one-time use password. So
what we need to do now is to actually get
into our box. When I mean "box", I mean
get into our server. We do that via
something called "SSH". So open up your
terminal. If you're on Windows,
you need to download a program called
"PuTTY", and that will allow you to do SSH
on Windows. Or if you're really into it,
there's a new thing on Windows called
"Windows Subsystem Linux", which will
allow you to use SSH on Windows no
problem, if you'd like to look into that.
Otherwise, just download PuTTY.
So here we go. We're going to do SSH, and
then you say "root",
because that's your username, you can
create more later, "@", and then you grab
IP address. That's sort of like the domain
name for your server.
It's going to ask if you want to have a
fingerprint. Yes, you do.
Then, it's asking you for your password if
you have a password.
If you don't, then you will already be
logged in, because you used an SSH key.
So I'm going to paste it in there. It's
not going to show us anything.
Hit Enter, and then it's immediately going
to ask you to set a new password.
So paste your current password. Then, make
a new one. There we go.
Now, I'm in. Then, I hit CMD+K to clear
this out. You notice that this is
different than my normal terminal, because
I'm actually in my server now.
So "ls -l", there's actually nothing in
there. But if I type "node -v",
you'll see that, ooh, now we have Node. I
can even do "Node", and then "1 + 1",
and I see 2. When I need to get back out
of that, I'll hit CTRL+C twice to get back
into my Bash terminal. Okay. So now, we
need to upgrade our version of Node,
because it's on Version 6.10. If it is not
at least 7.6, then you need to upgrade it.
The way we do that is we install a package
called "n", and n will allow us to switch
to different versions on our computer. So
type "npm install n -g",
and then we type "n latest". That's going
to go off and download the latest version
of Node for us. Now, if we type "node -v"
it's still going to say it's Version 6.
But if we type "bash", sort of like
opening up a new terminal tab,
and then type "node -v", then we're in
sort of a fresh version of a tab and we
now see Version 7.9. Good. So we have Node
all set up on our computer.
You can clear this out. The next thing we
need to do is actually get our files onto
our computer. So I'm going to move into
the "/opt". That's a nice directory to
keep all of your applications in, and
we're going to clone our application into
this folder. So if we go to GitHub here,
and we're going to Clone or Download,
and I'm going to select this URL here,
"Clone with HTTPS". Click it.
Say, "git clone", paste it, and what it's
going to do, it's going to go grab a copy.
It downloads fairly quickly and you can
say, "ls -l", and you see that now we have
our testing-deploy-node folder. So move
into that. Now, we have "ls -l".
There is our application. A couple things
we're missing here. First,
we don't have any of our dependencies.
Second, we don't have a varibles.env file.
So let's create both of those right now.
First, "npm install".
While I sit here and watch it try to
install webpack, and probably also will
try to install sass, I realize that npm
install could be made much quicker by
typing "npm install --production", and
that will only install our dependencies
and not our dev dependencies, which we
don't need sass on our...
It will install just fine. But there's no
need to actually have any of this
development stuff, like uglify and
whatever on our actual server,
because it's not needed in our case. So it
all finished. It puked a whole bunch of
stuff up on the screen. It adds some scary
warnings, but that's npm.
That's how you know it's done. It makes
you worried about what happened.
So that installed. The next thing we want
to do is create our variables.env file.
So we'll say, "touch variables.env", and
then we will go into that.
Now, we don't have an editor here, except
for vim. So we're going to be badass and
actually open up vim ourselves,
"variables.env". Now, we're in it,
and we can just go back to our existing
variables.env.now file with all of our
production things in it. We paste them in,
and then you want to hit ESC ":wq".
See, at the bottom here? I hit ESC ":wq"
and hit Enter. That means "save and quit"
in vim land, and then we have set that up.
So again, we npm installed.
We have our variables. I think now we can
be able just to type "npm start" and that
will kick off our start.js file. Because
we're running on Port 80,
again, Port 80 and 443, and I think one of
the other ones, those are the only ports
that are actually open on this image by
default, which is great.
You don't want to open everything else up.
So it's looking like it's up and running.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to take
the IP address of our Droplet and try to
visit it in the URL. Woo-hoo. There it is.
It's running. Obviously,
we don't have a domain name. You can do
that by going to your DigitalOcean backend
and click on Networking. You can add a
domain name in there. But you can visit it
no problem with your IP address that you
have for this server,
and then you can go ahead and everything
will work just as we expected it to work
no problem. One thing I should say is that
if you have a bug in your code and
everything breaks, then it won't restart
itself. This is a little bit confusing to
people who are coming from PHP, where if
you break your script,
and then you just refresh the page and
it's already working again.
So what I like to do on my servers is
rather than type "npm start" directly in
the command line... Because if I have a
fatal failure and the whole application
falls over in the middle of the night, no
one is there to start it back up again.
So we want to quit this, and we're going
to use something called "Forever".
Just like in development, we use Node MOM
to restart our app whenever there was a
change, what Forever will do is whenever
it senses that the application has
crashed, it will just try to start it up
again for you over and over again.
So if you do have a crash, it'll be down
for maybe a second or two,
and then it will be started up again. So
we're going to type "npm install -g",
globally, "forever". Once that is
installed, you can start your application
now. If we refresh, you'll see it's down
and we can type "forever start",
and then the name of the actual script,
"start.js", again, because we're in our
testing-deploy-node folder. I think it is
up and running now. We go back and refresh
this, and there is our application. You
can see if your script is running,
because if I were to close this tab or log
out, it would still run it in the
background. But you can always type
"forever list" and this will show you a
list of all the processes that are
running. In this case, we only have one
process and it is running Node, start.js,
and if that were to quit,
it would restart itself. What's cool about
that is you can also take those numbers,
0, say, "forever restart 0" and that will
kill your app and start it up again.
There we go. It's killed. But if I refresh
it a second later, it's back up again.
You can say, "forever logs 0", and that'll
give you any of the console.logs or any of
the errors that are happening on your
server, and you can be able to see that
really quickly as well. So that is
deploying to DigitalOcean. Pretty neat.
Pretty simple. I'm a big fan of that,
especially as things start to get a little
bit more expensive with
those other services.
♪ [music] ♪